Resiliency in .NET content (#37270)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/resilience/index.md

---
title: Introduction to resilient app development

> description: Learn about resiliency as it related to .NET and how to build a resilience pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about resiliency as it relates to .NET and how to build a resilience pipeline.
```

author: IEvangelist
ms.author: dapine
ms.date: 10/19/2023
---

# Introduction to resilient app development

Resiliency is the ability of an app to recover from failures and continue to function. In the context of .NET programming, resilience is achieved by designing apps that can handle failures gracefully and recover quickly. To help build resilient apps in .NET, the following two packages are available on NuGet:

| NuGet package | Description |
|--|--|
| [📦 Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience) | This NuGet package provides mechanisms to harden apps against transient failures. |

> | [📦 Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience) | This NuGet package provides resilience mechanisms specifically for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> class |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [📦 Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience) | This NuGet package provides resilience mechanisms specifically for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> class. |
```

> These two NuGet packages are built on top of [Polly](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly), which is a popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting, Fallback and Hedging in a fluent and thread-safe manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two NuGet packages are built on top of [Polly](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly), which is a popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting, Fallback, and Hedging in a fluent and thread-safe manner.
```

Reviewer: I don't think the strategies should be capitalized.

Consider the following string-based `key` example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/resilience/Program.cs" id="setup":::

The preceding code:

- Creates a new `ServiceCollection` instance.
- Defines a `key` to identify the pipeline.
- Adds a resilience pipeline to the `ServiceCollection` instance.
- Configures the pipeline with a retry strategy, circuit breaker strategy, and timeout strategy.

Each pipeline is configured for a given `key`, and each `key` is used to identify its corresponding `ResiliencePipeline` when getting the pipeline from the provider. The `key` is a generic type parameter of the `AddResiliencePipeline` method.

### Resilience pipeline builder extensions

To add a strategy to the pipeline, call any of the available `Add*` extension methods on the `ResiliencePipelineBuilder` instance.

- `AddRetry`: Try again if something fails, which is useful when the problem is temporary and might go away.

> - `AddCircuitBreaker`: Stop trying if something is broken or busy, which benefits you by avoiding wasting time and making things worse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `AddCircuitBreaker`: Stop trying if something is broken or busy, which benefits you by avoiding wasted time and making things worse.
```

- `AddTimeout`: Give up if something takes too long, which can improve performance by freeing up resources.
- `AddRateLimiter`: Limit how many requests you make or accept, which enables you to control load.
- `AddFallback`: Do something else when experiencing failures, which improves user experience.
- `AddHedging`: Do more than one thing at the same time and take the fastest one, which can improve responsiveness.

For more information, see [Resilience strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/index.html).

## Add enrichment

> Enrichment is the automatic augmentation of telemetry with well-known state, in the form of name/value pairs. For example, an app might emit a log that includes the _operation_ and _result code_ as columns to represent the outcome of some operation. In this situation and depending on peripheral context, enrichment adds _Cluster name_, _Process name_, _Region_, _Tenant ID_ and more to the log as it's sent to the telemetry backend. When enrichment is added, the app code doesn't need to do anything extra to benefit from enriched metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enrichment is the automatic augmentation of telemetry with well-known state, in the form of name/value pairs. For example, an app might emit a log that includes the _operation_ and _result code_ as columns to represent the outcome of some operation. In this situation and depending on peripheral context, enrichment adds _Cluster name_, _Process name_, _Region_, _Tenant ID_, and more to the log as it's sent to the telemetry backend. When enrichment is added, the app code doesn't need to do anything extra to benefit from enriched metrics.
```

Imagine 1,000 globally distributed service instances generating logs and metrics. When you encounter an issue on your service dashboard, it's crucial to quickly identify the problematic region or data center. Enrichment ensures that metric records contain the necessary information to pinpoint failures in distributed systems. Without enrichment, the burden falls on the app code to internally manage this state, integrate it into the logging process, and manually transmit it. Enrichment simplifies this process, seamlessly handling it without affecting the app's logic.

### Add resilience enrichment

In addition to registering a resilience pipeline, you can also register resilience enrichment. To add enrichment, call the `AddResilienceEnricher` extensions method on the `IServiceCollection` instance.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/resilience/Program.cs" id="enricher":::

> By calling the `AddResilienceEnrichment` extension method, you're adding dimensions on top of the default ones that are built in to the underlying Polly library. The following enrichment dimensions are added:

Author: ```suggestion
By calling the `AddResilienceEnricher` extension method, you're adding dimensions on top of the default ones that are built into the underlying Polly library. The following enrichment dimensions are added:
```

---
title: Introduction to resiliency in .NET
description: Learn about resiliency in .NET and how to build a resilience pipeline.
author: IEvangelist
ms.author: dapine
ms.date: 09/27/2023
---

# Introduction to resiliency in .NET

Resiliency is the ability of an app to recover from failures and continue to function. In the context of .NET programming, resiliency is achieved by designing apps that can handle failures gracefully and recover quickly. To help build resilient apps in .NET, the following two packages are available on NuGet:

- [Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience): This NuGet package provides mechanisms to harden apps against transient failures.

> - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): This NuGet package provides resiliency mechanisms specifically for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): This NuGet package provides resiliency mechanisms specifically for <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.
```

> - [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): This NuGet package provides resilience mechanisms specifically for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience): This NuGet package provides resilience mechanisms specifically for the <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> class.
```

> These two NuGet packages are built on top of [Polly](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/37270), which is a very popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting and Fallback in a fluent and thread-safe manner.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These two NuGet packages are built on top of [Polly](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/37270), which is a very popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting, Fallback and Hedging in a fluent and thread-safe manner.
```

> These two NuGet packages are built on top of [Polly](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/37270), which is a very popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting and Fallback in a fluent and thread-safe manner.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These two NuGet packages are built on top of [Polly](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly), which is a very popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting and Fallback in a fluent and thread-safe manner.
```

> These two NuGet packages are built on top of _Polly_, which is a very popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient-fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting and Fallback in a fluent and thread-safe manner. For more information, see [Polly](https://github.com/App-vNext/Polly).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These two NuGet packages are built on top of [Polly](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/37270), which is a very popular open-source project. Polly is a .NET resilience and transient fault-handling library that allows developers to express strategies such as Retry, Circuit Breaker, Timeout, Bulkhead Isolation, Rate-limiting and Fallback in a fluent and thread-safe manner.
```

Reviewer 2: Another, as you talk about things like Retry, or Circuit Breaker, consider adding links to this really nice Azure design pattern pages which describe the various patterns: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The [Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Polly](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Polly) NuGet package is deprecated. Use either of the aforementioned packages instead.

## Get started

To get started with resilience in .NET, install the [Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience) NuGet package.

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience --version 8.0.0
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience" Version="8.0.0" />
```

---

For more information, see [dotnet add package](../tools/dotnet-add-package.md) or [Manage package dependencies in .NET applications](../tools/dependencies.md).

## Build a resilience pipeline

> To use resilience, you must first build a pipeline of resilience-based strategies. Each configured strategy executes in order of configuration The entry point is an extension method on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection> type, named `AddResiliencePipeline`. This method takes a delegate that configures the pipeline. The delegate is passed an instance of `ResiliencePipelineBuilder`, which is used to add resilience strategies to the pipeline.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To use resilience, you must first build a pipeline of resilience-based strategies. Each configured strategy executes in order of configuration. The entry point is an extension method on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection> type, named `AddResiliencePipeline`. This method takes an identifier of the pipeline and delegate that configures the pipeline. The delegate is passed an instance of `ResiliencePipelineBuilder`, which is used to add resilience strategies to the pipeline.
```

There is also alternative overload that has a form of `(builder, context)` for more advanced scenarios. Might note it exists.

> To use resiliency, you must first build a pipeline of resilience-based strategies. Each configured strategy executes in order of configuration The entry point is an extension method on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection> type, named `AddResiliencePipeline`. This method takes a delegate that configures the pipeline. The delegate is passed an instance of `ResiliencePipelineBuilder`, which is used to add resilience strategies to the pipeline.

Reviewer 2: Can AddResiliencePipeline and ResiliencePipelineBuilder be made into links to the API docs?

Consider the following string-based `key` example:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Polly;
using Polly.CircuitBreaker;
using Polly.Registry;
using Polly.Retry;

var services = new ServiceCollection();

const string key = "Retry-CircuitBreaker-Timeout";

services.AddResiliencePipeline(key, builder =>
{
    builder.AddRetry(new RetryStrategyOptions());

    builder.AddCircuitBreaker(new CircuitBreakerStrategyOptions());

    builder.AddTimeout(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(5));

    // Add other strategies here...
});
```

The preceding code:

- Creates a new `ServiceCollection` instance.
- Defines a `key` to identify the pipeline.
- Adds a resilience pipeline to the `ServiceCollection` instance.
- Configures the pipeline with a retry strategy, circuit breaker strategy, and timeout strategy.

> Each pipeline is configured for a given `key`, and each `key` is used to identify it's corresponding `ResiliencePipeline` when getting the pipeline from the provider. The `key` is a generic type parameter of the `AddResiliencePipeline` method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each pipeline is configured for a given `key`, and each `key` is used to identify its corresponding `ResiliencePipeline` when getting the pipeline from the provider. The `key` is a generic type parameter of the `AddResiliencePipeline` method.
```

### Resilience pipeline builder extensions

To add a strategy to the pipeline, call any of the available `Add*` extension methods on the `ResiliencePipelineBuilder` instance.

- `AddRetry`: Try again if something fails, which is useful when the problem is temporary and might go away.
- `AddCircuitBreaker`: Stop trying if something is broken or busy, which benefits you by avoiding wasting time and making things worse.
- `AddTimeout`: Give up if something takes too long, which can improve performance by freeing up resources.
- `AddRateLimiter`: Limit how many requests you make or accept, which enables you to control load.
- `AddFallback`: Do something else when experiencing failures, which improves user experience.
- `AddHedging`: Do more than one thing at the same time and take the fastest one, which can improve responsiveness.

For more information, see [Resilience strategies](https://www.pollydocs.org/strategies/index.html).

## Enrichment

> Enrichment is the automatic augmentation of telemetry with well-known state, in the form of name/value pairs. For example, an app might emit a log that includes the _operation_ and _result code_ as columns to represent the outcome of some operation. In this situation and depending on peripheral context, enrichment adds _cluster name_, _process name_, _region_, _tenant id_ and more to the log as it's sent to the telemetry backend. Enrichment is done systematically and behind the scenes relative to logging and metrics update within the app's main code.

Reviewer 3: This part of the sentence doesn't make sense to me. Should it be _"updated"_?

> relative to logging and metrics update within the app's main code

Author: Thank you @martincostello - but I'm not sure what part of this paragraph you're referring to. Could you please be a bit more specific?

> Consider 1,000 instances of a service, spread around the world, each pumping logs and metrics out. If you look at a dashboard for your service and there's a problem, you need to know which region/data center is having trouble. Enrichment automatically makes sure that the log records have the state needed to pinpoint failures in distributed systems. If this isn't done through enrichment, it means the app code itself would need to track this state internally, weave it to wherever logging is done in the code, and then manually emit it. Enrichment makes that simpler, and invisible to app logic.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Consider 1,000 instances of a service, spread around the world, each pumping logs and metrics out. If you look at a dashboard for your service and there's a problem, you need to know which region/data center is having trouble. Enrichment automatically makes sure that the metric records have the state needed to pinpoint failures in distributed systems. If this isn't done through enrichment, it means the app code itself would need to track this state internally, weave it to wherever logging is done in the code, and then manually emit it. Enrichment makes that simpler, and invisible to app logic.
```

The Polly's enrichment works with metrics only it does not augument logs.

### Add resilience enrichment

> In addition to registering a resilience pipeline, you can also register resilience enrichment. To add enrichment, call the `AddResilienceEnrichment` extensions method on the `IServiceCollection` instance.

Reviewer 2: Add link for AddResilienceEnrichment

Author: There isn't anything to link to yet, the API reference material doesn't exist yet.

```csharp
services.AddResilienceEnrichment();
```

> By calling the `AddResilienceEnrichment` extension method, you're adding an additional dimensions on top of the default ones that are built-in to the underlying Polly library. The following enrichment dimensions are added:

Reviewer 4: Might be good to mention default metrics alongside the tags:
https://www.pollydocs.org/advanced/telemetry.html#metrics

And then what additional tags are added.

> By calling the `AddResilienceEnrichment` extension method, you're adding an additional dimensions on top of the default ones that are built-in to the underlying Polly library. The following enrichment dimensions are added:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By calling the `AddResilienceEnrichment` extension method, you're adding additional dimensions on top of the default ones that are built-in to the underlying Polly library. The following enrichment dimensions are added:
```

- Exception enrichment based on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Diagnostics.ExceptionSummarization.IExceptionSummarizer>, which provides a mechanism to summarize exceptions for use in telemetry.
- Result enrichment based on the <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Resilience.FailureResultContext>, which captures the dimensions metered for transient fault failures.
- Request metadata enrichment based on <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Telemetry.RequestMetadata>, which holds the request metadata for telemetry.

## Use pipeline

> To use a configured resilience pipeline, you must get the pipeline from the `ResiliencePipelineProvider<TKey>`. When you added the pipeline earlier, the `key` was of type `string`, so you must get the pipeline from the `ResiliencePipelineProvider<string>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use a configured resilience pipeline, you must get the pipeline from a `ResiliencePipelineProvider<TKey>`. When you added the pipeline earlier, the `key` was of type `string`, so you must get the pipeline from the `ResiliencePipelineProvider<string>`.
```
